Hello and welcome back.
This lecture I won't provide a solution to our previous challenge which was implementing the media interface.
We're going to simulate an auction.
So let's go ahead and bring up intelligent and we're gonna name this project our media solution and
the first thing we'll have to do is wealth to create that media interface that centralized location
that all of our colleagues have to go through in order to communicate with another colleague.
So we're gonna say mediator
solution
we can say new Java class and we'll say mediator has our name and this is gonna be an interface and
this is gonna allow colleagues to be able to add to the mediator so we're gonna have a public void ad
buyer which will take a buyer as a parameter and we'll create that college class in a minute and then
we're also going to have a method called Find highest bidder something like that and then we need to
create the concrete mediator.
This is gonna be called Auction mediator.
Remember this is the one that has a list of all of its buyers all of its colleagues right.
So this is gonna implement the mediator interface we'll call it auction.
I can spell auction.
Oh my God I can't spell.
Hey you see t Io an auction mediator is going to implement the mediator.
And with this class I'll just put a commie here.
This class implements the mediator interface
and holds all the buyers in an array list.
Then we can add we can add
buyers and find the highest bidder.
OK.
So here we'll need our array list will say private array list.
And this will be our buyers and we'll initialize this in our constructor.
We'll just say buyers equals new
array list
we're not going to override the ad buyer.
So we're gonna say public void ad buyer which takes a buyer.
Because we need to add it to the list.
And again the buyers the concrete colleague we haven't implemented it yet but all we need to do here
is we need to say buyers to add the UI Ja and we may want to print out a message saying somebody some
buyer was added to the list.
Again just for testing capabilities to some little method mass message.
Let's add that buyer dot name.
And again we're going to implement the buyer but the buyer not name was added to the list.
We also need to override the highest find highest bidder.
So we're gonna override our find highest bidder.
And I spelled that wrong up there not find highest bigger find highest bidder.
And this is gonna go through the list and just see what the highest bidders.
So it's gonna create a local variable for the max bid.
And it's also going to want to see who the buyers for winner so it's gonna create a local winner for
the buyer and the buyer again is the colleague we're going to fast iteration loop here which goes through
the array list and all the buyers.
And if the price for that buyer is greater than the max bid it's going to set the max bid to that price.
And it's also going to declare the winner at the end of this.
It's going to specify that the auction has ended.
We can put this anywhere really but we're just going to say put it in here.
Auction has ended.
And again we'll see these methods implemented in our concrete colleagues.
And then the last thing we want to do is we just want to point out the winner and the price for the
item
something like that
and what this does is just prints out the actual winner by looking at the buyer's name and the winning
price for the auction.
And then we're gonna close that method and we're gonna make sure we close the class.
Now we have a lot of red here because we haven't implemented the concrete colleague or the colleague
interface for that matter.
So first let's implement that colleague interface here.
We're gonna say our new colleague interface which is our buyer and this is gonna be an abstract class.
And what this is gonna do is it's going to hold the mediator.
It's also going to have a name and a price for all the concrete colleagues so we can put that all on
this base class.
All right our mediator that's used for all communication and our name and price.
And then all that's gonna be set up in our constructor so in our constructor we can set the mediator.
We can set the name.
Then we're gonna have our three abstract methods that are concrete colleagues are going to implement
we're going to have one for bidding.
This is gonna be an abstract void and it's going to take a price so that someone can bid on something
we're gonna have one to cancel the bid.
So here we'll just call this also going to return nothing.
We're gonna say cancel the bid.
And then the last one we're gonna have is one for the auction is ended so that the receipts essentially
receiver method to know that the auction has ended.
Now we can create our concrete colleagues to implement this.
Our concrete colleague is just gonna be the auction buyer so we can say class auction buyer extends
our buyer after class.
And it's this is going to implement the bidding process.
There's gonna be an option a bid an option to cancel the cancel the bidding constructor is just gonna
call super on the abstract class super mediator super name and we also.
Okay that's good.
We need to override our abstract methods.
Cancel the bid will be bid we'll be first.
All this does is set the price for that buyer.
So something like this not price equals price.
Pretty straightforward cancelling the bid.
It's just gonna set the price to negative 1.
Some kind of flag to indicate that we're no longer bidding and the auction is and it is gonna be received
Matt.
That's all it's gonna do is output some information saying the auction has ended right.
We received a message that the auction is over for this user and that will tell us that the mediator
sent us a message.
The last thing we need to do is create the client let's make sure everything is going to compile.
We misspell the method inside here.
This means to be highest HIV each.
And that's good.
Just fixing any my problems.
Buyer needs to
be here.
Make sure we have our buyer class implemented right.
And we have to make sure that we spell everything right.
So auction has ended auction has ended.
And this cannot be abstract.
So that's one mistake we got to make sure things are spelled correctly.
Buyer and it is just a quick fix with casting in the loop.
Have the array list contain buyer's returns an object.
And then we can just cast last up.
We need to do is we need to create the client.
So we're gonna say new Java class and we're going to say client
remember this program's just illustrating an auction.
This auction mediator is responsible for adding the buyers and after each buyer bid a certain amount
for the item the mediator knows who won the auction.
So the client's going to have a main method.
Public static void main.
And what this is gonna do is it's gonna first need to create the auction mediator and then have to create
some buyers.
So we're gonna say auction mediator and then we're to create some buyers will say Buyer B one equals
new auction buyer and we're going to pass in the mediator and we'll again say Jason create a couple
of these buyers.
How about three.
And again with just different names.
We'll say even in my room once we have the buyers created we'll have to add them to the mediator.
So we're gonna just call the add method on the mediator to add each buyer and we're gonna just display
some output so we know what's going on in the program.
Nice little message saying Welcome to the auction.
Tonight we're selling a vacation and so forth and then we're gonna wait for the buyers offshore.
So we're going to turn out one more message saying waiting for the buyers offers.
Then we'll start making bids.
Be one or buyer one we'll bid eighteen hundred buyer to a bid two thousand and buyer 3 is gonna bid
780 and then we'll do some more formatting our output and then try to find the highest bidder to find
the highest bidder we have to use the mediator so we say media dot find highest bidder.
And this is gonna tell us the highest bidder.
But before after we find the highest bidder B2 is gonna change their mind and they're gonna say cancel
the bid.
Now we're gonna have to print out the B to just cancel their bid.
So what happens after they cancel the bid while the mediator is going to have to find the highest price
again.
So we're gonna call a mediator again find highest bidder and they'll find the highest bidder after that
and then they should notify everyone that the auction is over.
So let's go ahead and try to build this website and see the output build and we say run on the client
and what you should notices everything to happen in the auction.
Jason Ian Michael were added as buyers.
So now the auction started.
They're waiting for buyers offers and the mediator received a message that the auction is over because
we called Find highest bidder and they immediately found the highest bidder after the bids were made
and notified all the colleagues that the auction was over.
They also notified that the winner was Ian because he paid two thousand dollars for the item.
Then Ian cancelled the bed.
So in that case we also send out we find the highest bidder again.
And then we received messages at the auction really is over and we set the new winner to Jason who paid
eighteen hundred dollars for the item the next highest bidder.
This could be formatted a little bit better and a little clear to display the messages of the auction
being over after we displayed the winner and that would be easy to fix.
We could say inside the mediate mediator hence the auction is ended.
We'd want to do that after after we set the winner.
The only problem is you'd have to do that in another loop right.
So we'd have to end up doing something like this to print out where the winner is.
And then we just tell them that the auction is ended.
That may be a little bit cleaner.
We just have to make sure recast correctly.
And then the output may look a little bit better.
Now we build and we run we'll see it's a little bit clear to the user what's going on.
Just say run quiet and now we can actually see that the auction winner should be done first.
So let's make sure we have to make sure we remove the other one.
Try one more time and now when we run can see it's a little bit clear we have an auction winner and
then they receive the message that the auction is over and then there's cancellation.
And in that case the auction winner is Jason.
And then we see receive the message.
The auction is over again.
So all this helps clarify your challenge and helped you understand the mediator design pattern a bit
more better.
Thank you.